What is Cultural Relativism?
Explain the argument for Cultural Relativism as covered in class, not from the book.
Explain why the argument for Cultural Relativism is invalid?
Explain two other problems with Cultural Relativism?
Explain the difference between simple subjectivism and emotivism?
Explain why all versions of subjectivism are wrong (in other words, how can there be moral facts and proofs)
Explain the Divine Command Theory
Explain the Euthypro problem in relationship to the Divine Command Theory
Explain the other problems with trying to base ethics on religion?
Explain the natural law theory of ethics
Explain the ought/is problem for natural law?
Explain one other problem with natural law?
Explain the difference between psychological and ethical egoism?
Explain one argument for psychological egosim? What is wrong with that argument?
Explain why altruism is self-defeating as disscussed in class.
Explain the principle of equal treatment. How does it demonstrate that egoism is wrong? Explain how an egoist might respond.
According to Hobbes, what is the state of nature? What is it like? Why is it that way? How do we get out of the state of nature?
Why might social contract turn out not to be an independent theory of morality? What are some other problems with the theory?
Explain how the prisoner's dilemma can be used to support the social contract as theory of morality.
Explain how you evaluate the morality of actions according to Utilitarianism?
Explain William's two criticism of Utilitarianism
Explain one other criticism of Utilitarianism
Explain the difference between act and rule Utilitarianism. Explain why rule collapses into act.
Explain how Kant would evaluate the morality of lying or stealing using the universalization formula of the categorical imperative
Explain one problem with Kantianism
Explain Singer's argument for why you are morally obligated to give money to famine relief? What premise would you reject and why to avoid the obligation? What is the implication of rejecting the premise?
Explain the difference between positive and negative responsibility
Explain Fred's story and what it means for moral permissbility of eating meat.
Explain the problem of marginal cases and what it means about morality of eating people.
Explain the standard argument against abortion. Explain what it implies about the permissbility of abortion due to rape.
Explain Thompson's Good Samaritan criterion and what it means for the morality of abortion.
